---
layout: post
title:  "The Symphony"
date:   2019-05-14 22:03:00
categories: music
---

The symphony is rightly viewed as the crowning achievement of Viennese Classical music.

- Opening Movement
    - tempo: fast/moderate
    - form: sonata form (sometimes preceded by a slow Introduction)
- Slow Movement
    - tempo: slow/very slow
    - form: no standard form (sometimes sonata form, variation form, rondo)
- Minuet (with Trio)
    - tempo: moderate
    - form: minuet form
- Closing Movement
    - tempo: fast/very fast
    - form: sonata form or rondo form

# Sonata Form

This form is full of contrast of every kind.

sonata form is of `A B A'` form, usually with repetitions `|:A:||:B A':|` or `|:A:| B A'`.

1. Exposition: [tonic key] first theme, [second key] bridge, second theme, cadence theme.
2. Development: [modulation] Various themes developed, Re-transition.
3. Recapitulation: [tonic key] first theme, bridge, second theme, cadence theme.

## Exposition (A)

1. To begin, a main is presented in the tonic key. This *first theme* may be a tune, a group of small phrases or simply a motive or two with a memorable rhythmic character. This may be repeated.
2. After the first theme is firmly establish, there will be a *transition* in key or modulation. This part is of tension.
3. Now comes the *second group*. The *second theme* contrast with the first them in melody, rhythm, dynamics and so on, as well as in key.
4. The last theme in the second group is the *cadence theme* to make a solid ending prior to a full stop and the big repeat.

This A (exposition) section was almost always repeated.

## Development (B)

The following section heightens the tonal-thematic tension set up by the contrasting themes and keys of the exposition. Most development sections use counterpoint to create a sense of breakup and turmoil. The modulation is never stable. the last modulation of the development section returns to the first key. The passage that accomplishes this is called the *retransition*.

## Recapitulation (A')

With a real sense of relief, we will hear the first theme again followed by all other themes and elements of the exposition with minor changes--every thing is remained in the tonic key so as to make A' more stable.

## Coda

This optional section wraps up every thing.



# Minuet Form (Classical Dance Form, or Ternary Form)

Baroque minuet form
| Minuet      | Trio        | Minuet |
|-------------|-------------|--------|
| A           | B           | A      |
| `|:a:||:b:|` | `|:c:||:d:|` | `a b`   |


Classical minuet form
| Minuet      | Trio        | Minuet |
|-------------|-------------|--------|
| A           | B           | A      |
| `|:a:||:b a':|` | `|:c:||:d c:|` | `a b a'`|

# Rondo Form

A B A C A coda

A B A C A B A

A B A C A D A 

A B  A coda

--and others 

The main tune (A) comes back again and again. If the A tune falls into the favoriate `|:a:||:b a:|`, then the repetitions may present only `a b a'` or `a b` or simply `a`.




